#itech210-sp2026-final

#Checkpoint 1-4/2/2026
In the readme.md file I want you to write out the idea for your game level and how it is centered around Native Mythology.  I am looking for a 100 to 200 word description.

My game is based on Native Mythology as well as a local story from a nearby community where my mother grew up. The level will take place as an escape level from a witch who has taken you prisoner from trying to ice fish before spring has arrived.
This is based on the story of an old witch or shunned lady who practiced bad medicine and was sent to an island, the story goes she would take kids who wondered too far during winters over the ice. I want to make a game where you see a page that shows you trying to fish and being watched, then waking up in an empty hut, then the actual game is escaping from the island as night is ending while over the ice to make it back to shore to your family who is looking for you. In this game I will make the witch who will send little goombas aka a wendigo type creature that comes at you, for coins I will make a feather the points that help you and fish that restore life (not sure if this will work but will try to make it work). Should the player fail the levels or die during the run, it will give you a end of game. The player should have 6 hearts and no more. The level will have ice pockets that the player must jump over and for items to jump on the player will jumpt on to branches from trees that have fell in the water which might block the pathway from avoiding it so you have to jump. I want to make a timer of 5 minutes to get back to shore. The player will go against the wendigo creatures but in the final section (last 25 seconds) before the shore, they have to outrun the witch who is faster than goombas(again not sure if this will work but will try to make it work). The game will end when the player gets to shore and reunites with their family as the sun is coming up. You will get a score and game over happy ending scene. 

